Last geometry that I really want to look at is a 2D plate.
So again here's a 2D plate and again I'm going to assume that you have uniform charge distribution.
Again this plate is assumed to be very very big so although I've just drawn a little section of it it's
really kind of really big and I'm looking at points that are pretty close to the plate.
The way you write down the charge distribution typically for 2D objects instead of the charge per unit
length like the line.
Now I talk about the charge per unit area so you would write the total charge divided by the total area.
This we typically use the letters sigma for this.
Here's kind of a side view all right.
Again I want to apply Gauss as lot of this object.
So we have to first define a ocean surface for this one here usually what people do here is usually
like a little pillbox extends a little bit above.
And then this will extend below the plate something like this.
If I draw it down over here again the Goshen surface would look like this and something like that okay.
First thing to realize is that the field produced by 2D objects just like the line you're only going
to have a field that points away from if it's positively charged.
The field would have to point away from the 2D plate.
It really doesn't make sense that there'd be any component over here that would be in the plane of the
2D plate.
So this actually simplifies our flux calculation because we don't have to worry about the flux on the
sides of this little tube over here.
No FLUX THROUGH THIS surface
through through the sides just right through sides.
I think that hopefully makes sense to you and that's simply because the angle between the vector that's
perpendicular.
All right here's my vector that is perpendicular and if the field's going up that means that the angle
over here would be 90 degrees.
So no FLUX THROUGH THE SIDES OF THIS SHAPE.
Only flux going through the top and the bottom.
Okay so now my little Goshen surface over here has a tiny little area here at the top.
And it has the same area at the bottom.
And again the direction now for the area is.
Again it's parallel to both right.
It's parallel to the electric field over here and it's also parallel to the electric field down here.
So let's first think about how much charge is actually inside this tiny little box over here.
All right.
How much charge do we have.
Well we only have a little bit of charge whatever charge is right here right.
That's where the 2D plate intersects my shape.
So let's first look at this one.
So the charging closed again it's going to be the charge density Sigma and multiplied by the area that
I'm considering over here.
The area of my little box or the area of my cylinder and that's it.
That's the total charging closed.
So at the end we all we need to do now is look at how do we evaluate the left hand side of Gauss as
low over here.
Because the right hand side is simply Sigma multiplied by the area divided by epsilon 0.
So for this one we need to look at the flux through the top and the flux through the bottom.
Again no flux through the sides.
So at the top again we just use our flux calculator which is just the electric field multiplied by the
area.
And then we have codes of zero degrees at the bottom we have the vector pointing away from the plate.
So we have e the areas the same.
And we also have codes of zero degrees.
And this here has to be Sigma a over Epsilon 0.
We don't have to worry about the coast of 0 term that simply equals the one.
And look at these two terms these two terms are the exact same so you get two times E A equals the Sigma
the same area divided by epsilon 0.
So one thing we notice here is that the area is actually on both sides.
And all you have to do is bring the two down in the denominator and you're left with the final answer
that the electric field is simply Sigma my charge density divided by two Epsilon 0
all right and that's it.
That is the total electric field.
Notice that this field here is constant.
Right doesn't depend on the distance.
There is no distance over here.
Once you know the charge density of the plate that's at any point you evaluate that electric field you're
going to get the same value.
So let me go ahead and kind of draw this.
Let's kind of remove this for a second.
This was from the previous problem.
So let's see what all of this means.
OK.
So imagine here I have a 2D plate and I'm just going to draw the side view.
And here we have a certain charge density.
That means if I want to draw this electric field I should let me change the color over here just so
we can kind of see this a little bit better.
All right.
If I draw the electric field that means that the electric field over here points away from the plate.
The electric field on this side points away from the plate and the electric field is uniform.
OK.
Which means that the magnitude of the field is simply Sigma divided by two Epsilon 0.
It's also the same up here Sigma divided by two Epsilon 0.
If I want to increase this value it really doesn't matter where you are right whether you're at position
1 or whether you're at position 2 whether you're at position 3 the magnitude of the field is always
going to be the same.
Now the differential sorry the direction will be different right.
Between 1 and 3.
But that's it.
The magnitude is going to be the same.
If you had a 2D plate that was negatively charged.
All right.
So the charge density would be a negative sigma.
Now the only difference would be that the field would be pointing toward it.
But e is still constant
and everywhere the field would simply be pointing toward that plate.
There is no component that is parallel to the plate.
The field is always perpendicular to plates.
So that's how you would apply goes is law to this problem.